The Joe Rogan experience. You've,
you've obviously gone through some improvements and some change,
like what's changed with you over the last,
like four or five fights because you you've,
you keep getting steadily better. But particularly the last two,
I think you should be on a four fight, win streak, because there was
One decision. I forget how to pronounce her name.
[Inaudible] yeah.
I don't know how to say it, but down then. [inaudible] I think she's on the,
yeah, she, and she's on this a card. The.
Yeah, I thought that was a bad decision, but you,
you had her locked up in the truck. I get sometimes when I,
when I do commentary, people get mad at me,
like either the fighters or other people,
but that was one where fans of her got mad at me because you guys were
riding in front and you had an, a triangle and I was yelling pulled ahead.
I was yelling, pull her head, pull her head. Cause you had it locked up.
It was locked up. I'm like, she's got it. She's got it. Just got it.
I'm like pull their head,
pull the head and people like you Dick telling her to pull the head.
Well, I didn't hear her if I heard you. I thought you were in my corner.
And I did hear someone say.
We're literally right there. It's.
So funny. Yeah.
Yeah. It's like you had it really had it. It was so locked in,
but I felt like that was a decision.
It wasn't the worst decision I've ever seen.
We've seen some really bad ones lately, but it was, it was not good. It wasn't.
Yeah. So that would have put you on a four or fight win streak.
But the Hannah ciphers when Hannah ciphers is tough and she's like physically
tough. She's a, like a strong girl, you know? And when,
when you got her down and smash it with those elbows, I was like,
something's going on? Like you're you're on another level. Why do you feel it?
Yeah, I did. I did. Um, I don't know. It's uh, I had, uh,
a lot of like, uh, I dunno,
I guess ups and downs in my career,
like is literally like up, down, up, down, like win-loss loss and loss. And um,
I think, uh, after the Rhonda fight,
I fought random Marcos about this time last year. And, um,
and I was just so at the way that went down because I was like super nervous
going into it. Um, I felt like this,
that was going to be a fight that kind of set me above the heap because
Rhonda is so tough and she kind of has that same, like up-down that I do.
So I'm like, okay, this is going to set me apart.
I'm going to get a streak going. Um,
this is going to be the fight that puts me in a rankings and I,
and I put a lot of weight on it and it,
and I had like ESPN following me that week too.
So I was just super nervous. And like the entire time during the fight,
like I wasn't in the fight.
Like I was overthinking every position.
Like there was a point where I had ran up against again,
the fight seems like it was 30 minutes long,
even though it was like two minutes, you know?
But like the moment that I had her up against the cage, I remember like,
just thinking, oh, if I hold her here, she can't do anything to me.
And that's like the exact opposite of what you should be thinking in a fight.
You should be thinking, I need to hurt her. You know, like I need to hurt her.
I need to do whatever it, whatever it takes to look like,
I'm trying to finish the fight. So I hesitated, uh,
my corner was yelling elbow. I didn't throw the elbow,
ran them through the elbow. And then from there I was just like, uh,
like two steps behind. I felt like.
And so that fog was a really weird thing for me because I had never
really thought about the mental side of fighting.
Like I thought I was doing everything right. Like I would visualize and,
you know, um, uh, tell myself all positive things and, you know, do,
do everything that you, you think you have to do before a fight. Um,
but that just kind of showed me, like,
I'm not doing enough because I knew I had the skills to beat her, but,
or at least the skills to make it look more competitive, but I didn't show it.
Do you think it.
Was the added element of the cameras following you around and just put this
additional.
Person that like it, like the pressure was already there.
And then I found out about, uh,
the ESPN thing and I feel like it was just me over it because
I've always had this, uh, I guess this, uh,
fear of losing too much, you know?
And it started when I got into the UFC,
I had like my tough fight. Didn't go well, but I was one fight,
you know, in my MMA career. And I was in the UFC already.
So I went on to win a fight, but then I lost two in a row and got cut.
And from that moment on I'm like, like,
people are just gonna think of me as the person who loses all the time.
And then I went on a four or five win streak and Invicta,
but then when I came back to the UFC, I lost a dried.
And even though it was like probably the fight that people still talk about to
this day, even though I lost. Yeah. Yeah.
Like I always get complimented on that fight,
but it was still another loss of my record. So like I've always had this kinda,
I don't know, like this,
a great cloud looming over like my confidence because of my
record.
Did it help that she went on to do such great things?
It did. It did. But when it came to fighting someone like Randy,
who kind of had a similar story where she is talented,
but she's fought a lot of tough people and lost to them or gotten like weird
decisions against people. Um, I don't know.
I just felt like this was my chance to prove that I'm not that like,
I'm a better fighter than my record shows. And so then when the ESB,
the in thing was thrown on and I just like,
it was just me begging up a situation that wasn't that big,
you know, like it, it was no different from, you know,
my fight with fascia Yoder. I felt more present in my dried fight.
Like it was no bigger than those fights,
but I just bigged it up in head and I felt like it was a result of me just
pushing down all this anxiety that I have every time I fight and not really
addressing it. So.
Did you address it since then? Yeah.
I did. Um, I just, uh, we, we started reading like those, uh,
mids of we, me and my husband. He,
he read them and then he started doing like the mental coach thing for me.
Um, but, uh, it, everyone, everything,
every resource that I looked at says pretty much the same thing is that you have
to focus on being present and being present each day and not
like dwelling on the past, not bringing the past into that present moment,
just trusting in your reactions and trusting in your, uh,
your preparation. And so that's what I've been doing is like, uh,
I've I have been doing like more like actual visualization exercises
and just every time I'm in the gym,
I just focus on being there at the gym.
I'm not thinking about like, what's going to happen if this happens,
what's going to happen. That that happens. I just,
I focus on the drill we're doing on the exercise. We're doing,
I go as hard as possible. And I think, uh,
just having that fight and having it go so badly,
forced me to go into the gym and just say, it. You know?
And it it's literally just like that. it. Mentality.
That was the worst that could happen. Where you didn't show up.
He didn't fight to the best of your abilities.
Exactly. When I hesitated, I didn't show up. I didn't,
I didn't stay in the moment I was thinking about what's going to happen next was
what just happened, you know? Uh, what's going to happen if I lose. Like,
I'm thinking that in the fate, like it, when I went to the gym the next day,
like literally like the next Monday I went to Joel, like, it. You know?
And I just went hard and like the next sparring session, I said, it.
And I went hard. And like,
those were like the best sparring sessions I had up to that date.
Like people were at guys, guys who like,
you usually wouldn't really say much after I sprout. And they're like, yo,
you're on something today. Like, you're,
you're like just like combinations and your volume and this and that. Like,
yeah, you're really getting after it. And I'm like, okay, okay.
I think I have like, kinda unlocked something so.
Well, it's really powerful the way you're addressing it,
that you're so honest about what went wrong. That's huge.
Cause sometimes people make excuses or they come up with some, some, you know,
something that went that didn't go their way,
that should've gone their way and they don't address the real issue.
You're you're addressing the actual issue that was going on in your brain.
And you know, that, that's what it was.
Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.
But it's like something I kind of had to learn from the get-go. Yeah.
Have you ever thought about going to like a sports psychologist?
I have. I have a,
like there I've tried a couple of people in the past and I really
just feel like everyone kind of says the same things. Uh,
so I feel like if you're getting it from any resource, that's good.
Like I started using, uh, that mindfulness app. Um,
I forget what it's called. Um, yeah,
his face isn't as it as the ones, a little cartoons. Um, and that,
that really helped, uh, just like kind of calm my nerves and keep the anxiety,
uh, from, from being crippling.
Sometimes what happens when you go to a coach is the fact that you physically go
to someone and you sit down with this.
It's like a different level of commitment. You sit down with this person,
this person formulates a strategy for how you address some of the issues that
are going on in your mind. And then sometimes you can go to a hypnotist,
like Vinny Shoreman do you know Vinny Shoreman he he's fantastic.
And he's done a lot of he's. He actually hypnotize me.
I asked him to hypnotize me cause I want to know what it was like.
It's very weird. It's very weird. It's like, you're there,
but you're not really there. It's like, you're in a room next to me.
He didn't touch me. Nothing. No, no, no, nothing weird.
I just wanted to, I just wanted to experience what it was like. And then,
you know, like sometimes I procrastinate too much. Sometimes I'm lazy,
sometimes a failure to get more work done than I do. I'm like,
I want to know what that is, you know?
And he is really good at working with fighters at addressing.
He does a lot of stuff through like FaceTime and too. Like using it.
He lives in England, but he's worked with Joe Schilling.
He's worked with a lot of different fighters,
but he basically tries to get you to understand, first of all,
you're already on a really good path because you understand what you did wrong.
Right? And then you understand to be more present those two things.
They're critical. That's everything understanding what went wrong,
letting it go. You're already doing that.
And then concentrating on what you're really good at and just saying, it.
And letting it go and expressing yourself, being, being you that you know,
that you can be when you're on. Right.
It's like how to capture that and hold that thought and then bring it inside the
octagon and be able to recreate those feelings when you're actually under
pressure of competition.
Mm. That sounds cool. But like hypnotizing, the like,
does he like take out the.
No, it just talks to you just close your eyes,
you lay back and he just sort of talks you through it. It's very weird.
It was not like therapy it's you definitely feel like a changing your
brain.
Yeah. You feel like you're in a different state. It's a weird state.
It's a very weird like, uh, after it was over, I was like, huh. Okay.
That's real.
Because I had seen like comedy hypnotism before.
Have you ever seen a comedy hypnotism show where they have a bunch of people
come up and like you're having sex with a, you know,
Rihanna and you think you are.
And there's a lot of weird stuff that people do in these, uh,
comedy hypnotism shows where I was like,
maybe I CA I don't think they could do that to me because I'm not going to
believe that I'm really on a cruise ship right now and pirates are coming or
whatever.
Yeah. Yeah. And he'd go hide. Yeah. They always LSE the ones where they like,
make him like, turn it into an animal or something.
Or every time you say this word something happened and I'm going to wake up in
3, 2, 1. Okay. Huh? Yeah. It wasn't like that.
But it is like he you're listening to his voice,
but you're in a different state of consciousness. It's very strange.
But you it's, you're,
you're able to put away the outside world for a brief amount of time and he
concentrates on flow,
like getting you to a state of flow that flow state when everything's going
great. You know, that feeling when you see things and you're,
you're hitting someone with someone with something before you even know that
there's an opening there. And that was in those, um,
those athlete books to just have flow state thing,
flow state is everything right.